# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, November 3, 2022

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom.us/j/184384055](https://zoom.us/j/184384055) (pw: 43690)
* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io) ([ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics), [Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com))
* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome
   * Dave Thaler (DT) opened the call at 7:03am PT
   * DT welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation
   * Kurt Taylor (KT) captured the meeting minutes
   * DT reviewed the agenda

### Roll Call / Attendance

***Voting members of the TAC***

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

   * Accenture - Giuseppe Giordano +
   * Ant Group - Hongliang Tian (Tate)
   * Arm - Thomas Fossati + / Michael Lu
   * Google - Cfir Cohen / Catalin Sandu +
   * Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang
   * Intel - Dan Middleton + / Simon Johnson
   * Meta - Eric Northup / Shankaran Gnanashanmugam
   * Microsoft - Dave Thaler (TAC chair) +
   * Red Hat - Lily Sturmann + / Dimitrios Pendarakis

   " + " indicates attending

***Other Attendees***

   * Alec Fernandez (Microsoft)
   * Che Wijesinghe (Cape Privacy)
   * Mike Gardener (Cape Privacy)
   * Eric Voit (Cisco)
   * Marc Menuier (Arm)
   * Nick Vidal (Profian)
   * Naveen Cherukuri (NVIDIA)
   * Penglin Yang (China Mobile)
   * Ranjit Narjala (Google)
   * Drasko Draskovic (Ultraviolet)
   * Shalom Shefa (Cisco)
   * Stephano Cetola (RISC-V)
   * Bessie Chu (Cape Privacy)
   * Matthieu Legre (Cysec)
   * Hannes Tschofenig (Arm)
   * Helen Lau (Linux Foundation)
   * Kurt Taylor (Linux Foundation)


**Meeting Minute Approval**

Proposed: That the minutes of the October 6, 2022 and October 20, 2022 meetings of the Technical Advisory Council of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

   * Quorum was reached and the October 20 minutes were approved by the voting members of the TAC. The October 6 minutes were tabled pending corrections.

**Action Item Review**

   * DT Reviewed the action items
   * Lily Sturmann (LS) commented on the RISC-V introduction

     **ACTION** Stephano Cetola (SC) to sync with LS on Keystone
   
   * KT discussed messaging services summary, start on the wiki
   * Best practices for Growing the community, starter page on the wiki
   * KT investigating Community Manager for CCC projects
   * DM commented on the CDCC contact for future tech talks
   
**Common Test Infrastructure**

   * DM summarized Occlum does not need a common infrastructure, just financial support for a VM, to be funded out of the 10K per project

**Budget**

   * DT discussed IETF Hackathon, Thomas Fossati discussed hackathon involvement and use of 1K travel budget, Attestation SIG advertise session on the mail list
   * Community Architect for the projects - SC discussed his experience with RISC-V, define expectations, need at least 50% of a LF persons time
   * DT asked what could we get for 50K? DM discussed job role, less about running a meeting, new contributor with a stuck PR in Github, get involved in the project, help developers get started, more hands-on less organizational
   * SC they would need to understand the technical aspects of a project but not deeply technical, estimates a mid-level program manager needed - suggested that for the budget it would be better to shoot for 100K to get at least 50% of a persons time
   * Proposed: adding 100K to the 2023 budget as a baseline for a community architect, can be updated via email later if needed
   * Approved: add 100K as a baseline for a part-time community architect
   * DT led discussion on adjusting per-item amounts in budget for 2023, NV discussed outreach involvement, 
   * Proposed: $290K draft budget, can be amended via email 
   * Approved: Baseline for the 2023 TAC Budget as defined in the meeting

**TAC Election**

   * DT discussed timeline and Call for nominations - brief bio, why you should be considered
   
     **ACTION** Kurt to send out email calling for nominations
   
   * Historically the vice chair was informally appointed, or appointed by Chair, discussion about doing a ranked vote, also possible to have individual nominations for chair and vice-chair
   * DM commented the vice-chair be informally appointed is less heavyweight, more preferable, discussion ensued, will wait to see nominations

**Outreach**

   * Nick Vidal (NV) discussed Outreach budget discussions, events include Confidential Computing Summit in July, CCC will sponsor
   * Wikipedia making good progress, editor found, editathon being planned
   * Website making progress, draft later this year
   * Richard Searle to present at the next TAC meeting for EUAC events, as tech talk

**Common Terminology**

   * DT discussed PR 134 - defer since Mike Bursell's input needed
   * PR 144 - DT proposed merge this after in-meeting edits and smart quote fixes, Approved by affirmation
   * DT and DM discussed the CNCF confidential container architecture and definition refinement to better align with the CNCF
   
     **ACTION** DM to work with CNCF to update confidential container definition
   
   * DT encouraged the merge of existing PRs quickly and get a new draft done for LF Creative Services by next meeting


**Other Business**
   
   * DT discussed upcoming talks and reports

     **ACTION** Kurt to reach out to Occlum for an annual report, with Project Progression section Annual Review Process https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/blob/main/project-progression-policy.md#iv-annual-review-process

Meeting adjourned at 8:45 am PT
