# Confidential Computing Consortium

## Minutes of the Technical Advisory Council

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

### Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, March 06, 2025

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/94618773737?password=4b2a5cdf-685a-4ea3-822d-24ff7ddab72e) 

* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io),
[ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics),
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c\_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com)

* **Recordings**: [YouTube TAC Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLmfkUJc39uMjaB_I1dYW72I44kr9QzG_B)

## Links

* **Code of Conduct**: [code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io](https://code-of-conduct.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **CCC YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

* Dan Middleton (DM) opened the call at 7:03 am PT
* DM welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation
* Renu Chauhan (RC) & Riaan Kleinhans (RK) created meeting minutes based on the publicly available recording
* DM reviewed the agenda

### Roll Call / Attendance

A quorum was not needed

#### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* AMD - Nathaniel McCallum   / David Kaplan
* Arm - Paul Howard +
* Google - Catherine Zhang+    / Catalin Sandu 
* Huawei - Zhipeng (Howard) Huang 
* Intel - Dan Middleton + (TAC chair)  / Simon Johnson
* Meta - Henry Wang / Kevin Hui
* Microsoft - Alec Fernandez  
* Nvidia - Fritz Alder +
* Red Hat -  Yash Mankad +  / Ram Pai + 
* TikTok -  Mingshen Sun + / Yao Zhang
* Shielded Technologies - Bob Blessing-Harley

   " + " indicates attending

#### Other Attendees

* Alice Lawewnce (Setit Solutions)
* Chris Ramming 
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer Institute)
* Jens Albers (Fr0ntierX Inc)
* John Manferdelli
* John Suykerbuyk
* Ken Fromm (DSA)
* Manu Fontaine (Hushmesh)
* Mark Gentry
* Ofir Azoulay-Rozanes (Anjuna)
* Renu Chauhan (Linux Foundation)
* Riaan Kleinhans (Linux Foundation)
* Haitao Huang
 

## Welcome New Community Members

Haitao Huang introduced himself 


## Meeting Minute Approval & Old Business

* Meeting minutes will be approved via Github.


## Old Business

* DM reviewed the old Business covered in the previous meeting. 

### Announcements 
* New TCA inbound: DM updated the committee members about Haitao Huang joining us as a TCA. 

* Board meeting 2/26: DM briefed about the charter change which was passed in the Gb meeting on February 26,2025 and it is under legal review 
 
* Trustworthy Workload Identity: Dm updated that the new invites are out for the working group to sync. 
 
## Annual Project Review - Certifier Framework by John Manferdelli  
* John Manferdelli presented the annual project report of the Certifier Framework
* [Slide Link](./CertifierFramework2025Update.pptx)

## Project Liaisons
* DM mentioned the projects which do not have any assistance on the annual review & maintenance from a project Liaison perspective.  DM opened the discussion about the Project Liaisons topic, volunteering their part for the role. Chris Ramming (CR) emphasized that this role is essential for project hygiene and most importantly the connections between the different projects. Thus having someone from the TAC meeting who can provide/establish the connections between the projects is useful. Paul Howard (PH) added that he is happy to be the certifier Framework project liaison. 
Yash Mankad (YM) explained that Veracruz needs to be archived then can Thomas Fosatti (TF) be assigned as a project Liaison to some other project? DM added that it is TFâ€™s wish to do that if he is interested. 

## Discussion: Workload Identity 
* DM updated the committee members about the latest updates from the workload identity group.

## TAC 2025 Objectives
*DM led the discussion around the TAC 2025 Objectives.  DM re-iterated TAC member objectives and discussed the names of the people who volunteered themselves for the TAC objectives. 

## Projects

## SIGs

## Any Other Business / Topic Schedule 2025

Topics for the next meeting were discussed and added to the agenda slide.

Next meeting March 20, 2025

The meeting was adjourned by DM at 07:00 am PT
